We'll make some happy little bushes here. Nothing's gonna make your husband or wife madder than coming home and having a snow-covered dinner. A little happy sunlight shining through there. You can't have light without dark. You can't know happiness unless you've known sorrow.
There he comes. Trees get lonely too, so we'll give him a little friend. Each highlight must have it's own private shadow.
Little short strokes. I think there's an artist hidden in the bottom of every single one of us. La- da- da- da- dah. Just be happy. You got your heavy coat out yet? It's getting colder.
Isn't that fantastic that you can create an almighty tree that fast? If you overwork it you become a cloud killer. There's nothing worse than a cloud killer. Here's something that's fun. I will take some magic white, and a little bit of Vandyke brown and a little touch of yellow.
Every day I learn. And right there you got an almighty cloud. Think about a cloud. Just float around and be there. When you buy that first tube of paint it gives you an artist license. We'll lay all these little funky little things in there. If you didn't have baby clouds, you wouldn't have big clouds.
Let's go up in here, and start having some fun You have freedom here. The only guide is your heart. There we are. You create the dream - then you bring it into your world. We'll do another happy little painting. Let's just drop a little Evergreen right here.
Play with the angles. Now let's put some happy little clouds in here. Let all these little things happen. Don't fight them. Learn to use them. There are no limits in this world. All those little son of a guns.
It's so important to do something every day that will make you happy. Don't fiddle with it all day. Let's do it again then, what the heck. And I know you're saying, 'Oh Bob, you've done it this time.' And you may be right. What the devil. I'm a water fanatic. I love water.
Everyone wants to enjoy the good parts - but you have to build the framework first. Didn't you know you had that much power? You can move mountains. You can do anything. It's beautiful - and we haven't even done anything to it yet. It's life. It's interesting. It's fun. That's a crooked tree. We'll send him to Washington. Zip. That easy.
Just think about these things in your mind - then bring them into your world. Nice little clouds playing around in the sky. Maybe there's a little something happening right here. If you hypnotize it, it will go away.
Follow the lay of the land. It's most important. Water's like me. It's laaazy ... Boy, it always looks for the easiest way to do things You're meant to have fun in life. Anything you want to do you can do here. See. We take the corner of the brush and let it play back-and-forth.
Trees cover up a multitude of sins. And I will hypnotize that just a little bit. Mountains are so simple, they're hard. We don't really know where this goes - and I'm not sure we really care. Just relax and let it flow. That easy.
Let your heart be your guide. A tree cannot be straight if it has a crooked trunk. Painting should do one thing. It should put happiness in your heart. You better get your coat out, this is going to be a cold painting. Maybe there's a happy little waterfall happening over here. Isn't that fantastic? You can just push a little tree out of your brush like that.
We'll throw some old gray clouds in here just sneaking around and having fun. Talent is a pursued interest. That is to say, anything you practice you can do. Be so very light. Be a gentle whisper. The shadows are just like the highlights, but we're going in the opposite direction. It looks so good, I might as well not stop. It's cold, but it's beautiful.
You don't have to be crazy to do this but it does help. Son of a gun. Just let go - and fall like a little waterfall.
The secret to doing anything is believing that you can do it. Anything that you believe you can do strong enough, you can do. Anything. As long as you believe. Let's make a nice big leafy tree. Just use the old one inch brush. This is the way you take out your flustrations. Now we'll take the almighty fan brush. Let's get wild today.
It's a very cold picture, I may have to go get my coat. It’s about to freeze me to death. Volunteering your time; it pays you and your whole community fantastic dividends. It's hard to see things when you're too close. Take a step back and look. Just go out and talk to a tree. Make friends with it. This is your world, whatever makes you happy you can put in it. Go crazy. We're trying to teach you a technique here and how to use it.
The man who does the best job is the one who is happy at his job. We artists are a different breed of people. We're a happy bunch. A fan brush can be your best friend. Of course he's a happy little stone, cause we don't have any other kind.
Any little thing can be your friend if you let it be. Let's do that again. A thin paint will stick to a thick paint. Work that paint. The only prerequisite is that it makes you happy. If it makes you happy then it's good.
We'll put some happy little leaves here and there. I really believe that if you practice enough you could paint the 'Mona Lisa' with a two-inch brush. You have to allow the paint to break to make it beautiful. We tell people sometimes: we're like drug dealers, come into town and get everybody absolutely addicted to painting. It doesn't take much to get you addicted.
Put light against light - you have nothing. Put dark against dark - you have nothing. It's the contrast of light and dark that each give the other one meaning. If I paint something, I don't want to have to explain what it is. That's why I paint - because I can create the kind of world I want - and I can make this world as happy as I want it. Just pretend you are a whisper floating across a mountain.
There isn't a rule. You just practice and find out which way works best for you. Steve wants reflections, so let's give him reflections. Remember how free clouds are. They just lay around in the sky all day long. Let's build some happy little clouds up here.
Let's build an almighty mountain. Once you learn the technique, ohhh! Turn you loose on the world; you become a tiger. And maybe, maybe, maybe... You could sit here for weeks with your one hair brush trying to do that - or you could do it with one stroke with an almighty brush. Let's put some highlights on these little trees. The sun wouldn't forget them.
Just let these leaves jump off the brush I thought today we would make a happy little stream that's just running through the woods here. In nature, dead trees are just as normal as live trees. All you have to learn here is how to have fun.
You can spend all day playing with mountains. Automatically, all of these beautiful, beautiful things will happen. Isn't that fantastic? We can fix anything.
Maybe there's a happy little bush that lives right there. Now it's beginning to make a little sense. Just think about these things in your mind and drop em' on canvas. And maybe a little bush lives there.
We'll put all the little clouds in and let them dance around and have fun. Let's put some happy trees and bushes back in here. Clouds are free they come and go as they please. Every time you practice, you learn more. Here we're limited by the time we have.
You can work and carry-on and put lots of little happy things in here. Here's another little happy bush If what you're doing doesn't make you happy - you're doing the wrong thing.
That's the way I look when I get home late; black and blue. You need to have a very firm paint to do this. Be brave. Look at them little rascals. Don't forget to tell these special people in your life just how special they are to you. I really recommend you use odorless thinner or your spouse is gonna run you right out into the yard and you'll be working by yourself.
It's a good way of getting rid of all your anxieties and hostilities. You can't make a mistake. Anything that happens you can learn to use - and make something beautiful out of it. I get carried away with this brush cleaning.
You don't have to spend all your time thinking about what you're doing, you just let it happen. It is a lot of fun. The more we do this - the more it will do good things to our heart. We have all at one time or another mixed some mud.
I was blessed with a very steady hand; and it comes in very handy when you're doing these little delicate things. Poor old tree. Let's make some happy little clouds in our world.
Paint anything you want on the canvas. Create your own world. Sometimes you learn more from your mistakes than you do from your masterpieces. In your world you have total and absolute power. Pretend you're water. Just floating without any effort. Having a good day. Nothing wrong with washing your brush. We're not trying to teach you a thing to copy. We're just here to teach you a technique, then let you loose into the world.
If you do too much it's going to lose its effectiveness. Everybody needs a friend. Happy painting, God bless. You don't want to kill all your dark areas they are very important. We don't have anything but happy trees here. Let that brush dance around there and play.
Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world. Just make a decision and let it go. Trees grow however makes them happy.
Let all these things just sort of happen. There comes a nice little fluffer. No pressure. Just relax and watch it happen.
Just take out whatever you don't want. It'll change your entire perspective. If we're going to have animals around we all have to be concerned about them and take care of them. God gave you this gift of imagination. Use it. We'll have a super time. Mix your color marbly don't mix it dead. This is your creation - and it's just as unique and special as you are.
We'll play with clouds today. Let's put some happy little bushes on the other side now. Everything is happy if you choose to make it that way. We start with a vision in our heart, and we put it on canvas. These little son of a guns hide in your brush and you just have to push them out.
This is unplanned it really just happens. This piece of canvas is your world. Let's make a happy little mountain now. Give him a friend, we forget the trees get lonely too. That is when you can experience true joy, when you have no fear.
A fan brush is a fantastic piece of equipment. Use it. Make friends with it. Now then, let's play. This is your world. This is the time to get out all your flustrations, much better than kicking the dog around the house or taking it out on your spouse.
Use what happens naturally, don't fight it. Nature is so fantastic, enjoy it. Let it make you happy. We need a shadow side and a highlight side. Look around, look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere, you only have to look to see it. Let's put a touch more of the magic here.
And that's when it becomes fun - you don't have to spend your time thinking about what's happening - you just let it happen. In painting, you have unlimited power. You have the ability to move mountains. You gotta think like a tree.
Let's give him a friend too. Everybody needs a friend. You have to make almighty decisions when you're the creator. The only thing worse than yellow snow is green snow.
Get away from those little Christmas tree things we used to make in school. Let's have a nice tree right here. Don't kill all your dark areas - you need them to show the light. All kinds of happy little splashes. Almost everything is going to happen for you automatically - you don't have to spend any time working or worrying. We don't make mistakes we just have happy little accidents.
Everything's not great in life, but we can still find beauty in it. You can create beautiful things - but you have to see them in your mind first. I guess that would be considered a UFO. A big cotton ball in the sky. You're the greatest thing that has ever been or ever will be. You're special. You're so very special. You can do anything your heart can imagine. Get tough with it, get strong.
Use your imagination, let it go. There are no mistakes. You can fix anything that happens. We'll put a happy little bush here. Use what you see, don't plan it.
A tree needs to be your friend if you're going to paint him. We'll put a happy little sky in here. Work on one thing at a time. Don't get carried away - we have plenty of time.
Just a little indication. We don't need any guidelines or formats. All we need to do is just let it flow right out of us. Only think about one thing at a time. Don't get greedy.
These things happen automatically. All you have to do is just let them happen. And just raise cain. If you don't think every day is a good day - try missing a few. You'll see.
I started painting as a hobby when I was little. I didn't know I had any talent. I believe talent is just a pursued interest. Anybody can do what I do. At home you have unlimited time. How do you make a round circle with a square knife? That's your challenge for the day. In life you need colors. By now you should be quite happy about what's happening here.
