It is the 952nd year in the Second Age, and Ivalion remains at war. For nearly 800 continuous years, The Empire of the First Sun, the Kingdom of the Red Lion, and the Eternal Horde have fought and bled over their shared continent. Few remember how the fighting began, but all know the price it bears. For the last century, the conflict has turned into a prolonged stalemate, and people have fallen into an uncomfortable lull. Each quiet moment is a blessing.
In this continent, there are few places one can truly call safe; however, Longview might just stand out as paradise. Tucked away on the remote Crescent Islands, the small, strewn out village is a peaceful place filled with happy faces. They have managed to preserve this dream like state for nearly 200 years.
Perhaps this is what originally drew Sif away from the mainland. He had grown weary of the Life God’s power being used as little more than an instrument of war, and, unable to remember anything except for the past year of his life, had no ties to the hustle and bustle of Ivalion. For the last few months, he had enjoyed passing the days helping the people build homes and lives, making friends with the tabby cat at Dorek’s tavern, and sleeping beneath the stars.
Here in this quiet place, our story begins to unfold. We begin in the early, honest hours of the day. The skies are peaceful for the moment, but, on the horizon, things look far worse. Sif picks up his meager possessions, chief among them his trust mace Estelle, and heads towards town, unsure of what awaits him.
At a brisk 5:30 AM, Sif takes a modest swig of Maltört from the flask on his hip, as is his custom. As the sweet and soulful taste of wormwood and juniper berries coats his throat, he makes his way towards town. As he approaches the bar, he encounters Dorek, the bartender, and Jac, the captain of the boat that delivers supplies to each of the local islands. They carry worried looks on their faces, and tell Sif that Tim, an elderly human not too far away, has reported many of his farming tools as missing or destroyed. While they’d normally chalk it up to his forgetfulness, they’ve also heard rumors of a small-time gang taking up residence on one of the islands.
Sif agrees to look into the problem immediately, and Jac offers him a ride to the other island. Sif, horrified of the open waters, asks to lock himself in the boat’s quarters; however, Jac informs him that a strange Elven man has paid handsomely for privacy as he tours the islands. Dismayed, Sif boards the ship, and swallows a massive lump in his throat as he sees a storm roll in. During the horrendous trip, Sif throws up several times before attempting to cure his sea-sickness with alcohol.
It doesn’t work.
After braving the weather, they dock up at the small island Tim calls home. Jac mentions the elf had also requested to visit this very island, so Sif immediately waves goodbye and walks directly towards Tim’s house.
Upon arriving at Tim’s worn-down cabin, Sif is immediately greeted by tried-and-true complaints such as, It took them long enough to check in on me, Nobody has time to stop by anymore, and In my day, you had to swim between these islands. Sif chimes in, and further complains about how easy everything is in the current day and age. The two curmudgeons then discuss the real cause of Sif’s visits- the missing tools. Tim stands in his doorway while his new friend investigates the area. A brief search uncovers tiny footprints scurrying about, and many broken handles to rakes, hoes, and other gardening tools with dual-purpose names. They note that only the metal portions had gone missing, and that Tim was also missing the jar full of nails he kept on his windowsill- the only part of his home to receive direct damage. Sif agrees to take watch for the night, and Tim makes them a good, old-fashioned potato soup.
Long after dark, Sif hears the scratching of claws against wood and investigates. He finds a young goblin hurriedly rummaging through Tim’s toolshed, and quickly leaps to action. Between the extreme lack of light and experience, neither manages to land a blow for a while, until an arc of white light wizzes past Sif’s face, fatally striking his foe. An arrow of glowing energy extends out of the goblin’s skull, and Sif looks over towards Jac’s boat. He sees an elf faintly illuminated by a glowing bow returning to his quarters. To commemorate his foe’s memory, Sif takes a drink.
The next morning, he relays the news to Tim and promises to search the rest of the island. After thirty minutes, he finds a cave pressed against the shoreline. Inside, he encounters two more goblins. The first one is quickly incinerated by Sacred Flame, and the other one is given a good taste of Estelle. With his foes defeated, Sif discovers why the tools had been stolen. All of the metal had, in a very haphazard fashion, been used to further seal shut a small crate in the corner of the cave. When he picks the crate up, a chill runs down his spine before he immediately bashes it open with a rock.
Sif is disappointed that the box only contained a small, polished black stone, but decides to keep it because it looks cool. He rushes back to tell Tim that all his problems are solved, except for his lack of tools. Tim seems distraught, but thanks the young cleric. Sif tries to offer him a drink, but, when he declines, takes both for himself. His work done, and his flask empty, Sif returns to Jac’s boat and catches another ride to Longview. Jac asks Sif if he saw his mysterious passenger on the island, but Sif shrugs his shoulders.
Now docked at Longview, Sif decides to investigate his nautical companion and knocks on the door. The standoffish yet very well-dressed elf introduces himself as Aelith, a treasure hunter. Sif asks him if he knows of any cool places to visit, or, failing that, if he could buy a map. Aelith agrees, but for the price of 5 copper pieces. Sif shows him the stone, and Aelith, with a look of utter shock, immediately agrees to trade the stone for one of his maps. Sif asks to celebrate over a drink, and Aelith includes an extremely rare bottle of wine in the trade. Thoroughly pleased with the greatest deal of the century, Sif wanders back to the tavern to drink his wine, among other things.
Having found his way back to Dorek’s tavern, Sif spends his last few copper refilling his flask. Dorek asks him about the rumors of gang activity, but Sif believes the goblins were too disorganized to be acting in a group. He does his best to calm the bartender’s fears, in the not-too-subtle expectation of a free drink. After caving, Dorek mumbles to himself about the lack of good coin in Longview. Sif agrees, and takes a long sip. They stand in silence for a minute before Dorek decides it is time to clean up some dishes. Sif begins looking over the maps he got from Aelith.
While looking over the mainland, Sif is immediately drawn to two locales: Blackrock Heights and the Silvermoon Forest. Silvermoon Forest draws his attention as the home of his god Odo, the great white elk. Blackrock Heights, home of Almawt, god of death, piques his interest as something that sounds cool. With this in mind, he commits to traveling to the mainland in search of work and exploration, but not before cracking open his bottle of wine.
After sleeping beneath the stars for another night, Sif, moderately hungover, seeks out Jac. In exchange for help loading the Southern Star with crops for sale, Jac will ferry Sif to the nearest city on Ivalion’s mainland, Cirrus. Both the labor and the journey are perilous for the hungover cleric with a deathly fear of the open water, but he manages to survive with his sanity intact.
Upon arriving in Cirrus, a seemingly quiet and peaceful town along the coast, Sif is immediately directed to check in with Captain Orrinstander. To the best of Sif’s knowledge, Cirrus would fall within the borders of the Kingdom of the Red Lion; however, it should be far enough from the fronts to have a military presence. Confused, he decides to investigate further.
The captain, a dwarven man in full ornamental uniform, greets Sif with a strong sense of suspicion. The captain believes he is being unduly investigated and improperly supported. Sif decides to play ignorant, and explains that he is vaguely interested in joining the army. Orrinstander is impressed with Sif enough to let him stick around town, but only if he contributes to the militia’s defense fund. Completely broke, Sif is temporarily banished from town.
While being escorted out, Sif notices some of Orrinstander’s soldiers shaking down the locale populace. A young man and his son are also unable to pay into the defense fund, and a gold locket is taken as collateral. Sif manages to overhear the locket will be kept for safekeeping in a small encampment in the forest to the south. At this moment, Sif quits resisting his banishment and leaves town quickly.
After a few hours on the road, Sif finds a worn-down path into the forest. He decides follow the trail from a distance, and sneaks further in. He eventually finds a wooden palisade encircling a small military camp at the foot of a hill. The camp consists of 3-4 tents, a guard tower, and a mining path cut into the hill. For the next few hours, a total of 5 soldiers come and go, each bringing sacks of coin or other valuables. From his observations, Sif assumes the soldiers are running a racketeering ring.
That night, while formulating his next move, Sif hears a twig snap. He bolts up, and sees a bald gnome dressed in all black hightailing it from the edge of the fort. There appears to be a commotion and several soldiers running out, so Sif darts off too. The two eventually run into each other, and, due to a series of quick and incorrect assumptions by both parties, Sif ends up knocking the gnome out with his mace Estelle.
Panicked, Sif stabilizes the gnome with Spare the Dying and hides him in a ditch. While moving him, Sif notices an ornate obsidian dagger with a glowing rune, and assumes that it used to belong to the soldiers, and, by extension, the villagers. He takes it to return, and eventually finds a quiet place to sleep for the night.
The next morning, Sif dons a disguise and sneaks into the back of a local tavern, the Red Rooster Inn. The Innkeeper, an old human named Kip, is disgruntled by the outsider with no money to spend. Sif explains that he is trying to help the town, but Kip believes all hope is lost. The soldiers have been stationed in the village for almost a year, and the last time someone tried to get involved, they were beaten half to death. Dismayed, Sif asks if he could at least help out to earn a room to stay in for the night. The innkeeper directs him to the direst and pressing work in town: clearing his basement of rats.
Finding himself in command of the awesome and terrifying power of the gods, Sif repeatedly casts Sacred Flame until the diseased rats beneath the Red Rooster Inn are no more. With the task at hand completed, Sif returns to Kip. The old man rewards Sif with a hot meal and a bed to sleep in for the night. Pleased with his hard work, Sif takes a drink and makes his way to his free room. It’s cramped and dark, but the mattress is soft and cool.
In the middle of the night, Sif is rudely awoken by the sound of his door being kicked in. One of Orrinstander’s soldiers has found the banished cleric. His foe’s warhammer crushes part of the bed’s frame, but Sif quickly breaks the man’s will by setting him on fire a la Sacred Flame. Seeing a wounded opponent Sif offers him mercy, and offers to heal him if Sif can be left alone. Confused, the man agrees, and Sif casts Cure Wounds to uphold his end of the bargain. He congratulates himself on another job well done, pats himself on the back, and takes another drink.
The next morning, he is awoken to an even more distraught Kip yelling about the damaged door. Sif offers to repair it, but quickly learns he has no skill working with wood. He tells Kip to contact the soldiers, and assures him they’ll compensate Kip for the damage done. With his day freed up, Sif decides to talk to more of the villagers of Cirrus.
After sneaking about for a few hours, Sif eventually runs into the man whose locket had recently been stolen by Orrinstander’s men. He is depressed, as the locket was a keepsake from his late wife, and wishes someone would help them out. Sif lets the man know he’s on the case, and would also support them launching a full revolution. The man promises to stir up the local populace, but refuses to directly participate as he is his son’s last remaining parent. Sif, upset at the man’s cowardice decides to handle the problem directly.
After banging on the doors of town hall for a minute, a clerk tells Sif that Orrinstander has returned to what he calls home base. With several of the soldiers out of town, and a few villagers at his back, Sif takes the opportunity to wallop a couple of the soldiers with Estelle. They are broken and bloodied, and Sif decides the townsfolk can decide their ultimate fate. With Cirrus secured, Sif heads towards their encampment in the forest. By his count, Orrinstander will only have one healthy man at his side, and Sif feels confident.
As he digs his way through the forest, Sif hears a thunderous crack echo through the valley. Curious, he runs forward to see the camp’s main gate hurled at least fifteen feet from where it had been mounted. Sif feels a lump in his throat, but calms his nerves just enough to press onward. Beyond the wall, Sif sees two soldiers laid out and rushes to them. One of them is the man who had attacked Sif in his room, and the other is a much younger half-elf. They’re both heavily bruised, the human has a broken leg, and the young man is unconscious.
Please. Help. I don’t know what he did to Terris, but he won’t wake up.
Sif casts Cure Wounds and the man begins to regain consciousness. As he wakes up, he mutters something about seeing two fish swimming in a circle over and over, and claims to have watched his soul get knocked from his body. The two soldiers embrace, and Sif asks what happened. A single human monk, dressed in solid black robes came to the camp in search of a magic torch Orrinstander owned. After the captain refused, the monk offered them one day to reconsider.
When they refused again, the monk knocked the gate free with a single strike. While awestruck, the soldiers stood no chance, and in-turn both were knocked out in a matter of seconds. As the realization dawns on them, Orrinstander, horribly beaten limps out of the mining tunnel. Sif stands, Estelle in hand, and asks if they’ll leave the village alone. Seeing the condition they’re in, Orrinstander agrees and complains that his torch Everbright was stolen. Sif recognizes the weapon’s name as a tool of Nar, Goddess of Light, and asks what a monk would want of it.
He said he was going to destroy it. Sacrifice its power.
Feeling a chill run down his spine, Sif asks if they heard a name or an organization title. Orrinstander tells him that Wu Shen is the name he heard, but had never seen monks dressed in black. To his knowledge, the only monastic order was that of Avalon, and they traditionally wore orange robes. Sif began to wonder what there was to gain by destroying a relic, or how he’d find such an organization. The dwarf warned him, He’s the type to find you, and I don’t think you want him to be interested in ya.
Ignoring the warning, Sif heads back to Cirrus in search of more information, or, failing that, more work. Several of the townsfolk mention seeing Wu Shen, but steered as far away from him as possible. One villager claimed that he asked the monk for aide, but all he got in response were cruel words of wisdom.
This is a situation of your own creation. I have no pity for you.
Sif gathers further information, and learns that similarly clad monks had also stolen an unusual book that belonged to Hermaeus, God of Knowledge. So, naturally, the cleric plans to visit the Monastery of Avalon near Ishtar, but comes to the sullen realization that his pockets are empty. Desperate for work or transportation, he returns to the Red Rooster Inn. A large, fully-stocked cart of expensive mining equipment and construction tools rests outside of the tavern. Sif begins to peer around it as a cheerful dwarven man with a large red beard greets him, asking if he has any interest in the mining trade.
He declines, but offers his services as a healer or fighter if he can get a job or a ride east. Smiling, the man introduces himself as Aryn Greyspine, and offers Sif a job guarding his cart as they transport supplies to a man named Gadriel in the town of Phandalin. As they talk, Sif learns the roads have become dangerous, and several people have been kidnapped by goblins in the last few weeks. The cleric eagerly shares his experiences of smashing gobbies in Longview. They make a deal, and Aryn says the, quite possibly, most important words in all of Eibellion’s history: Perfect. It sounds like you’ll get along great with the other fella too. Hey Grok, come meet our new friend.
A dull thud echoes from the other side of the cart, and the ground trembles. A half-orc in tattered brown pants and a steel helm lumbers towards Sif. His hair is long, black, and unkempt. A vague look of confusion and boredom hides the machinations of a mind too advanced for the uninitiated. He carries a great axe with muscles not born of vanity, but of pure, unbridled power. The sight is too beautiful to behold.
Before Sif stands the true protagonist of our story: Grok.
Aryn, unable to reach six feet into the air, gives Grok a hearty pat on the back of the thigh, and points to Sif, Grok, this is Sif. He’ll be helping you take the cart to the nice elven man with the mine over where the sun comes up. Is that okay with ya?
The glorious, green-skinned visionary replies in a voice that would make the angels cry, Can Grok still lead ox?
Holding back tears, the cleric answers, You know it buddy.
With their introductions complete, Grok and Sif ride off into the sunset together. Grok speaks little, and Sif is content to watch the rolling hills pass by. After camping for the night, the group prepares to set out again, but their path is blocked. A few felled trees stop their cart in its tracked, and the dynamic duo is ambushed by a band of goblin mercenaries.
Over the next few moments, Grok sinks his axe into three of his foes, and Sif handles the remaining Goblin with Sacred Flame. While Grok tends to the terrified Oxen, Sif searches the bodies for treasure. He finds a handful of coins, as well as crude orders from a hobgoblin named Werst ordering his clan to ransack any caravans headed to Phandalin. Sif takes the notes, and decides he can use it to earn a larger reward, and a contract for future work. Satisfied with their hard work, the two continue on.
As they approach Phandalin, they notice that it is nearly abandoned. The local tavern has lights and movement, but most of the homes are empty and cold. Sif knocks on the door of the Bronze Boar, and the lights within extinguish almost immediately. He announces his servitude to Odo, and, after a few moments of hushed whispers, the tenants crack the door open a hair. Recognizing Grok, they let the cleric enter, and explain the recent hardships their town has faced.
In the last few months, an elven business man from The Empire of the First Sun had purchased the mining rights to the hills just north of Phandalin. Initially, it brought a lot of work and attention to the small town; however, this did not last. Eventually, the mine attracted the wrong type of attention, and goblin raids became quite frequent. This drove a lot of people away, and the local economy quickly collapsed. Determined to help, Sif agrees to find the source of the goblins. Grok silently agrees.
After a quick meal and rest, they finish their journey to Gadriel’s Mineral Acquisitions. They are greeted by several weak and tired miners that help Grok unload the cart. Meanwhile, Sif seeks to strike a deal, and find his payment.
He finds a well-kept tent towards the back of the camp, and unable to knock, decides to let himself in. Gadriel, slightly annoyed, is a moderately well-to-do elven man whose office is littered with ancient texts, maps, and strange mineral samples. Sif, who only cares about the mineral gold, hands Gadriel the receipt from Aryn and is summarily given his gold reward. He notices that Gadriel seems to be stressed, and asks about recent events. He is frustrated by the attacks on and kidnappings of his men, which has only been intensified by the lack of progress beneath ground. There are rumors the hill is haunted, and several of his miners are striking until a full investigation is carried out.
Sensing that he is needed, in a way that would be financially beneficial to himself, Sif agrees to look into both problems with the aid of Grok. Curious, Gadriel asks if Sif is employed by Eryn Greyspine. Unable to hear the difference between the names, he nods affirmatively. The elf agrees to pay him through Eryn, and recommends speaking to the dwarf in the neighboring tent.
Sif makes the trek over, and sees a familiar face. Aryn’s identical twin, Eryn, greets the strange man at his tent’s flap. After a thorough explanation of the twins’ joint venture in the supply trade, they eventually come to a full, joint understanding of the situation. Eryn agrees to let Grok help find Gadriel’s missing miners, if Sif is willing to escort a cart of unprocessed ore back to Cirrus. A deal is struck, and Sif hops back in the cart with Grok.
On their way back to Cirrus, they encounter a small path leading into a secluded grove. Sif assumes it would make a good hideout, so he asks Grok to tie the oxen up. They creep forward, until they hear a few voices bickering back and forth in the goblin language. Two goblins are guarding the entrance to a cave. With the element of surprise on their side, the two leap out and quickly dispatch their foes.
Charging forward, they clear out the cavern until the party eventually finds themselves toe to toe with Werst. A flurry of slashes nearly sends Sif to his god Odo, but, thankfully, Grok saves the day. The unparalleled barbarian flies into a rage and crushes the hobgoblin’s skull against a cavern wall. Sif watches on with a look of horror and astonishment. After tending to their injuries with Cure Wounds, Sif searches for information, treasure, and the missing miners.
His curiosity is rewarded with a contract between Werst and a man named Casfar Felvos. Casfar pontificates about the dire importance of his research, before diving into the actual details of the work. Werst is allowed to take whatever spoils he and his clan desire using the weapons and armor Casfar has purchased for them. In return, the goblin band must ransack all caravans headed to Gadriel’s Mineral Acquisitions. At the very end of the document, Sif finds Werst’s signature next to Casfar’s, as well as a strange symbol of a large spider. Unable to recognize the significance, he pockets the information and a key the hobgoblin had tied to his belt.
Following the echoes of a few whimpers, Sif and Grok are led into a dimly lit chamber full of cages. Two dwarven men and a human woman are being held prisoner, and look sickly and starving. The cleric quickly rushes to their aid, frees them of their cells, and learns they were kidnapped after fleeing Phandalin. He tends to their wounds and offers them some of his rations. Grateful, they ask for a ride to anywhere but their present location.
Grok helps the weary souls into the cart back outside, and they complete their journey back to Cirrus. Aryn, proud to see his two star employees returning, welcomes everyone to a round of drinks at the Red Rooster Inn. Sif begins to ask about the clues he discovered earlier, Yo, Aryn. My buddy. My guy. Does Gadriel have any enemies?
Not that I would know about. I mean, he’s a little stuck up, but I don’t think anybody would hate him.
Are you sure about that? There’s someone that wanted his whole operation gone. He was connected to a spider symbol and there’s a name: Casfar Felvos.
Aryn looks at the floor and sighs heavily. He tells Sif about some of the troubles in his homeland in the Kingdom of the Red Lion. In particular, he remembers a village near the mountain his family used to live beneath. Kythorn, as it was known, had almost entirely cut itself off from the rest of the nation, and most people avoided it entirely. There had always been rumors of disappearances, but, things have recently gotten much worse.
Over the last few years, a string of murders haunted the southern reaches of the kingdom. While most believed it was the handiwork of a serial killer, the people of Kythorn had become convinced the Empire of the First Sun had infiltrated their lands with spies and assassins. Witch hunts spread out into the neighboring communities with religious zeal. It took months to settle the violence, and the organization behind the mania, the Web of the Black Spider slipped away into the shadows. Aryn believes it is possible an arm of the group could exist this far into contested territory, and, given Gadriel’s nation of origin, he would be a prime target.
Sif contemplates the situation, and is bothered by the news of Kythorn. His brief formal education over the last year had entirely skipped that region of the realm, and Sif believed that it was an intentional decision by the acolytes of his faith. Hungering for more information, he decides to head back to Phandalin to investigate further.
Before leaving, Sif asks if Grok can continue travelling with him. Unfortunately, Grok is needed to help sort and resell the ore, but, after that, Aryn will be sending Grok to Phandalin once more. They can reunite at Gadriel’s camp, and come up with further plans there. Sif agrees to the deal, and the crew shares in another round of ale.
Fully rested, and slightly liquored up, Sif makes his journey east towards Phandalin once more. During his journey, he begins pondering his past life. Was he always a cleric? Who did he used to be? Is Sif even his real name? Reaching as far back into his memory as he can, he still only remembers the same scene: He wakes up in a large poster bed filled with white linens. His head and body ache with tremendous pain; however, he is somewhat comforted by the sight of his mace Estelle.
For the last year of his life, Sif had never let the mace leave his sight, but had never understood why. Assuming it held some significance to the man he used to be, he has kept it in pristine condition. Thankfully, the cleric's journey to Phandalin was much less exciting this time, and his mace was not needed.
Noticing his sobriety, Sif heads to the Bronze Boar. Sif makes an dangerous discovery while refilling every container he owns: he is a human container. For the next few hours, Sif gambles with the bartender and drinks enough wine to sedate a horse. The liquid courage flows through his body as he make increasingly larger and larger bets. Unfortunately, luck was not on his side.
Left without the cash needed to secure a room for the remainder of the night, Sif decides to earn some gold the old-fashioned way. He eventually finds Gadriel studying a large pile of maps by candlelight. In a very long, haphazardly assembled series of slurs, Sif brings the elf up to speed.
Gadriel's Mineral Acquisitions will be fully staffed after Aryn and Grok make the return trip with the lost miners.
Sif watched Grok smash gobbies and thinks he's a hero deserving of a raise.
Some spider guys want you dead as fuck buddy.
Distraught by the news he is being hunted, Gadriel offers to pay Sif handsomely to resolve the manner and clear his mine of whatever may haunt it.
Sif, a fully ordained priest and cleric, blessed with the sacred powers of Odo, agrees:
"Fuck yeah!
If you're paying, I'll do it."
The elf thanks him for intervening so quickly.
Sif walks out, saying over his shoulder, "Yeah, I'll check it out in the morning."
Ignoring his own decision, Sif immediately stumbles towards the mines.
Unable to see much of anything in the cloudy night, he casts *Light* on Estelle.
The mine entrance is well-supported with large wooden braces every ten feet.
Mining picks, hammers, and other tools litter the ground.
A strange silence fills every room, and every footstep echoes across the cold rock.
Fully inebriated, Sif ignores the warning signs.
He pokes around a few side chambers off of the central vein, and walks out.
It is the 76th year in the Third Age, and the sister continents of Toramand and Ushazan are divided by jagged terrain, wild seas, and a myriad of political powers. Chief among them is the Idravalli Empire of Toramand. Under the unwavering leadership of their emperor, the nation quickly rose to prominence and power at the fall of the Second Age as it slowly spread to encompass the surrounding societies of the region. Through war and trade, their borders grew and came to envelope most of the continent; however, this came to an eventual halt. During the great wars that bridged these two eras, their emperor ascended to the status of a god tasked with defending Eibellion against the horrors of the outer realms.

In his absence, most are left to their own devices. You live as you did before, and the Ordo Administorum takes but a humble tithe of what you produce and earn. You follow its laws, worship its god, and bow before your respective leadership. In return, citizens are protected from the chaotic horrors and scattered evils that stalk the edges of civilization. Tensions brew beneath the watch of the Inquisition, every temple is government owned and run, and worship outside the approved idolatry is met with imprisonment and cries of heresy. The forced annexation of Sembal at the northern coast has many common folks on edge.
Our story, however, begins much smaller and much simpler. Here in the Southern Reaches of the Idravalli Empire and its border with Barovia, far beyond the shadows cast by the Heavenly Peaks, are the crooked and overgrown roads connecting these two lands. Pinned between sharp mountain peaks and the roaring Southern Sea, this is a road traveled by few. The first flakes of snow have long since fallen, and a bitter chill greets all who cross these barren lands.
Here in this most unusual place, a handful of wandering destinies slowly begin to intersect. We begin in the late hours of the afternoon, as the sun begins to set over the western hills. A single wagon lead by two oxen slowly cuts through the ice and snow. A young man and his wife nestle against each other for warmth, looking for a place to rest for the evening. Their entire shared life resides in the ramshackle wooden cart they bought with their last coppers, joined by a most unusual character- a half-elf half-asleep, eyes covered by a ripped and torn book of the arcane arts, with an empty bottle in hand.
Thaelen Melrose has been riding with Adrian and Elena Sorina for the past few weeks. They provide him with basic provisions and ask few questions. Thaelen provides them with the promise of protection. As they cut their way through the countryside, they eventually encounter a stranger wandering the wilderness. Adrian and Elena offer to give the tall, ghastly, slender human in pinstripe robes a ride as far as Grezjit, and he offers to tell them the good news of his generous benefactor. He gleefully agrees and joins Thaelen in the back of the cart. Thaelen offers him a swig from a clearly empty bottle before once again falling asleep.
After another hour travelling, the cart becomes stuck, but none of the occupants are strong enough to push it free. Eventually, a passer-by, in the form of a hulking half-orc in mix-matched attire gives them a hefty shove, in exchange for a ride. He is quiet, but does offer everyone his identity: Krug. The strange human looks on expectantly, but nobody asks him about his name.
As the night settles in, the party looks for a place to rest and comes across the campfire of a quiet elf wandering in solitude. His pale complexion and hair almost blend in perfectly with the surroundings, as does his rough and tumble attire. After a brief exchange, the eventually agree to pool their food and warmth for the evening. Elena, tired from the journey and her pregnancy, begins to rest while Adrian ties up their oxen and lash down their cart for the evening. The rest of the party shares a drink while watching.
After a brief meal of stale bread, local berries, and a roast squirrel, they decide to call it a night and Krug takes first watch.
After thoroughly inspecting the back of his eyelids, he is awoken by an enormous wolf-like entity biting into his ankle. It appears to be a large, obsidian like mask that coalesces nearby shadows into the form of a hound. His howl awakens everyone, and the party fights the Shadow Mastiff. A quick flurry of blows puts the beast down, with our elven friend delivering the last blow. A quick flourish of his blade cracks the mask in two, and dissipates the shadows clinging to it. Adrian and Elena cower behind their wagon for the next few minutes.
Krug ties the mask to his back as his party inspects it. Through their collective knowledge of the arcane, they know these entities are summoned as servants from the Shadowfell. While easy to conjure, they can be difficult to control for novices, and most end up wandering of their own accord. The elf, who finally introduces himself as Tlareg, believes it is the work of a witch he is hunting. Thaelen believes it is more likely an arcane mishap. Their human companion continues to remain nameless.
After resting they eventually set-out in the morning, but not before Thaelen pokes Krug with Mage Hand for amusement. By noon, they’ve reached Grezjit, a very small farming community of approximately 40 people. Elena’s uncle owns the Rounded Antlers Inn and she has offered them a few free nights of hospitality and meals as compensation for aiding their family in their travels out of the Empire. Mikhail, the Inn’s proprietor, pays them additional 12 gold and points to a small job board maintained by the Belgrave Consortium for additional work.
The party discusses their options:
An oddly lucrative contract for any and all adventurers on a jungle island in the north
The Ordo Inquisitas offering bounties on any and all heretics
A missing person case in Ravensloft, the capital of Barovia
An opportunity to mediate a dispute between a logging company and some local druids
Guard work for the Ordo Administorum
Realizing they aren’t familiar with the current state of affairs in Barovia, they ask Mikhail for his thoughts. He warns the group that nobody has ever been seen coming back from the first contract, and that it is likely a scam; however, he seems hesitant to discuss local matters. After some coaxing, he reveals things in Barovia have taken a turn for the worse. While Grezjit and his family are alright, strange chills can be felt in the dark. Count Strahd has become reclusive, strange beasts haunt the lands, and a local woman, Gertruda Janovic, has recently fallen very ill after courting a man working for the Count. Krug shows him the mask, and he admits he has seen something similar following Gertruda.
After deliberations over a round of Maltört, a strong dwarven-style ale of international infamy, the group decides to help the people of Barovia. They seek out Gertruda’s home, and knock on the door for several minutes. Krug tries to kick it in, and successfully knocks the snow off of an awning and on to the party. During the ruckus, a young neighbor boy yells at the party to keep it down. They yell at him to figure out why Gertruda hasn’t answered. He yells that her boyfriend came by last night and that’s she’s probably sleeping it off. They yell their thanks.
As they ponder breaking in to her home, she answers the door in a nightgown before immediately fainting. Tlareg catches her and rests her on a small bench in her home. Thaelen rummages through her things, and exchanges the old, uncorked, half-full bottle of wine on her nightstand for his empty bottle. Their nameless companion furiously scribbles something into a large set of notes he carries with him.
After administering a small herbal remedy, Tlareg wakes Gertruda up. They ask a flurry of questions, but she is understandably uncomfortable with the strangers in her home. Thaelen assures her everything will be alright, mostly by casting Charm Person. While entranced, she answers their questions.
Gertruda admits she has recently taken quite ill, and has experienced fainting spells, headaches, and a general malaise. Upon seeing the mask, she confirms the party’s suspicions, and tells them about the Shadow Mastiff that has been seen near Grezjit. When asked about her boyfriend, she explains that Zherulius is a kind soul, but his work in the capital has made his visits irregular. As a trader, he can often only stay for a few hours overnight. The party suspects he is connected to the beasts, but needs to get more information. They ask her to visit them at the Rounded Antlers Inn that evening, and Thaelen asks her to buy drinks. She agrees.
Over the next few hours, the party discusses their plans and begins contemplating how they can find an audience with Count Strahd. As they pass the time, Lise offers to read their fortunes. The nameless human agrees, and she quickly a deck of tarot cards. Tlareg stares on suspiciously and silently. Thaelen drinks heavily. Krug tries his hardest to remember his own name. Eventually she draws the following cards, representing the three phases of life- Past, Present, and Future.
The Page of Wands. He has a strange enthusiasm and eagerness, and a willingness to learn what most would ignore or fear. While there are some scars from this time, they will heal into something greater.
The High Priestess. His insight into the souls of others is a source of power rarely shared. While he says little, he knows much. He acts as a benign aide to those in need, if they deserve it.
The Magician. Studiousness is rewarded, and in the arcane, it can mean nearly limitless power; however, it comes from a temperamental source. Should he falter, he may peak early or far worse.
Tlareg asks Lise about her knowledge of the arcane, but she responds coyly. There is a slight unease, and the party decides to drink it off.
After a few hours, they are joined by Gertruda. She honors her promise to buy drinks, but is shy and quiet. As a group, they discuss the state of things in Barovia, and ask when Zehrulius will return. She admits she doesn’t know, but that he was headed to the town of Trostenwald to the north. Believing Zehrulius is responsible for the hounds, and believing the local magistrate could offer them an audience with Strahd, they commit to a northern journey and set out in the night.
Arriving in Trostenwald, they find a much larger, Bavarian-style town. There are bustling streets, a cavalcade of shops, and several guard posts. They ask a dragonborn guard for directions to the town hall and if the magistrate would be available to meet with them. The guard points to a large central building, but mentions they will have to wait for the magistrate’s vacation to end. He is expected to return within a week. After being referred to a few local inns, Thaelen decides to seek out a local chapter of the Fox’s Cowl, a low-stakes guild of thieves and miscreants. Once again, this is accompanied by a furious scribbling from the man without a name.
Leaving a symbol known to his associates, Thaelen searches the city for any clues or contacts that might lead them to a hideout. They eventually see a response indicating the open streets aren’t safe for business at the moment; however, it does point them to somebody who knows somebody who knows somebody. After establishing contact, they follow a series of coded directions to the back room of the Blood on the Vine tavern on the nearest creek. After greasing a few palms, they are led down a spiral staircase to a secret prohibition storage room turned bar filled with goblins, a few halflings, and at least one kenku. They are greeted by an all-too-friendly triton man lounging in a “mostly” clean chair.
The triton spreads his arms widely, and calls out, “Well, just what do we have here?” Thaelen, Tlareg, Krug, and the Slenderman are somewhat off put by their host, but, knowing nowhere else to go, they cave. True to form, and in the order they were standing in, the group eventually responds.

“Hey.”

“What’s up?”

“Krug”

“HELLO”

They explain they’re new in town, and looking for information, a place to stay, and some work. The man introduces himself as Dalzos Dagoth, the “ringmaster” of the local thieving chapter, and sincerely promises to help the party. They ask him if he knows a man named Zehrulius or any way of getting an audience with the magistrate. The man smiles in the way only a con can, and offers to make a deal. A strange, poorly dressed half-orc turns from his seat at the bar as his ears perk up. Krug nods in approval.

Dalzos explains that recent events have drawn too much attention to his operation, and he needs to get the heat off his back. A paladin of the Platinum Dragon has recently taken guard duties in the city and is well-known for his appetite for justice. Normally, this wouldn’t bother the ringmaster, but a painting had recently been stolen from the manor of Count Strahd and is being moved through Trostenwald by another group of thieves. Dalzos, looking to appease the city guard asks the group to find the painting and return it to the paladin known as Arminius.

Thaelen, skeptical of the job, asks for more information, wanting explicit details on the limits of success and failure. Dalzos is only willing to help the group if the painting is returned intact to Arminius before him and his associates are arrested or investigated. The new moon in two nights would make convenient cover for the painting to be moved out of town, so he gives the group a day and a half. Since Dalzos has shared his home, he also insists on retrieving a blood sample from at least on party member.

Thaelen immediately declines, and asks for “a bit of privacy” to talk it over. The four huddle in the corner as the other half-orc approaches them. The mountain of a man, calling himself Number 6, wants in and is tired of lounging around an admittedly small bar. Krug and 6 have a conversation in Orcish, and debate beating a stranger for their blood. Tlareg, annoyed the group won’t speak in common, asks Thaelen why he won’t give up a little blood.

“Listen, that blood hunter bitch can use that shit to track me. I ain’t about that life.”

He alludes to a prior incident that drove him out of the Idravalli Empire, and insinuates he had to pay a small fortune in bribes to make it to Barovia. Krug, not getting to Krug anything, decides to offer them to draw from his bandaged leg. The triton motions to the tabaxi, who magically fills a phial with Krug blood.

With their contract signed in literal blood, the group asks for any information that could help them locate the painting. Dalzos, a generous host, provides them with three leads.

The Temple of the Raven Queen was robbed lost night. Believing the thieves to be amateurs, Dalzos believes they’d be dumb enough to draw that type of attention to themselves.
The circus is in town, and has a less-than-stellar reputation. Even if the thieves aren’t a part of the circus, nobody would notice them skulking about.
Arminius is leading his own investigation, and would certainly know something about the suspects.
The group decides to talk through their plans over a drink. Surprising no one, they order Maltört. While waiting for their drinks, Thaelen notices a young tiefling woman sitting at the bar. After thoroughly ogling the large goliath babe serving drinks, she offers her assistance as well. Thaelen tentatively agrees, but claims he “never works with someone without knowing their name.” She shrugs her shoulders and the matter is dropped. A single tear rolls down the cheek of the nameless twig of a man.

The group debates their options, but ultimately agrees the circus is the best place to start. The tiefling woman is excited about the prospect of finding snacks, Tlareg is excited to see a show, and Thaelen is disastrously drunk. Krug gives a look of disappointment. Acknowledging his fault, the wizard conjures up a strangely gaunt Mage Hand and slaps himself in the face to sober up.

While approaching the large yellow and red canvas tents, Thaelen passes out a silver-backed playing card to each of his associates to use as a fake ticket. The con-at-heart slips past the admission gate unnoticed, but the rest of the group is stopped by a seven-foot-tall orc wearing a purple and black striped vest and a clown’s nose. The orc sells them up on the promises of mystical wonders beyond the comprehension of mere mortals, the finest food in all of Barovia, and a main act so intense, it has allegedly killed three people. The rest of the group decides to buy the cheapest tickets, until the promises of mystic animals and drink tickets goad them into upgrading. Wide-eyed, Tlareg throws down enough coin to buy the unlimited gold pass.

As they walk into the sea of amusements, tents, and children sprinting around, they decide to split up based on their interests. The tiefling woman cons a teenaged, pimple-faced human into giving her free popcorn. Beanstalk, Krug, and 6 decide to investigate the animals and promises of being able to pet them. Thaelen decides to look for carnival games, and Tlareg wants to get his fortune told.

Thaelen finds himself walking through a sea of children playing the rigged games of his youth. A small child asks if the hobo wizard is his father, and Thaelen immediately walks away. Finding himself in a small gambling room with three total patrons, he attempts to play three card ante by using a bucket as his bet. He then casts Minor Illusion to create fake money. After that, he attempts to cast Charm Person to persuade someone, anyone to let him play. Broke and denied, he decides to look for clues. He notices a small, goblin-like creature with dark skin dart into the shadows and assumes it is his blurred vision.

Meanwhile, Tlareg finds a small, gaudy tent serving as the home of a fortune teller. The decorations are designed as a draw, and the entire thing reeks of a scam; however, Tlareg discerns the old, dark skinned human woman is genuine. He asks to see his past and his future, and, while examining his palms, she draws two tarot cards:

The Nine of Wands. While standoffish and paranoid, it is Tlareg’s resilience and determination that have driven him so far. He is focused, driven, and determined. The difficulties of his past have built up to his future.
The Ten of Wands. The person Tlareg is looking for can be found; however, it will require sacrifice. Tlareg is capable of great things, but he will have to carry the weight and bear the price of his journey. In his future, he will have to decide between his destiny and accomplishments.
Tlareg reflects on the words, and asks if the woman knows of the painting. Seeing his all-access pass and no other customers, she offers a second telling. From what she can see, the painting is bound to soil and water and draws her to thoughts of the Shadowfell. She believes Barovia to be a cursed land, and this is another icon of the nation’s despair. He presses her for further details, but her glimpse into the future is cut short.

On the other side of the carnival, the tiefling woman decides she wants to pet animals while eating her popcorn. The four find themselves in a long tent housing an owlbear, an axe beak, several pseudodragons, and a gazer. While the rest continue oohing and aahing, the thin, nameless man slinks around, looking for clues. He notices several of the canvas flaps aren’t fully tied down, leaving a three- to four-foot entrance in a few panels. While Krug and 6 yell at each other from across the room, he slips through the crack and finds himself near the housing portion of the carnival. He sneaks around a few of the tents before finding one covered in mud.

Leaning against the canvas, he hears a few voices muttering in Sylvan.

“Do you have everything?”

“Yeah.”

“Does anybody know?”

“I don’t think so.”

He dashes back to his party, and calls them to join him. They stack up at the front of the tent, and the tall man rips open the flaps.

“ARE YOU LITTLE BOYS BEING NAUGHTY?”

Frightened, the two Darklings try to dart away. The tall man casts Eldritch Blast and knocks the wind out of one of his foes, and yells, “Keep one safe so we can find out who’s been naughty and nice!” The tiefling chases after him as he tries to escape, and hefts him off the ground. Krug hefts 6 into the tent, and 6 attempts to tackle the other darkling. After seeing his half-orc brother in arms fall flat on his face, Krug roars and flies into a rage. The other darkling starts running away, but 6 lands a strike from the ground and Krug throws his halberd through their foe.

With the remaining Darkling bound in canvas and rope, they begin interrogating him. After seeing his impaled friend, he immediately tells the party where they can find the painting. They are led along the creek’s path for nearly a mile, before they find a boat tied up on the shore. The thin man lifts a piece of canvas, and find several boxes of ceremonial tattoo ink, and a very large portrait of a woman that looks strikingly similar to Gertruda. 6 asks if it’s the right painting, and the thin man assumes the Strahd would highly value the portrait of his late wife. He checks for a signature on the back of the canvas and finds the name Childris Westerwilt. After a brief discussion, they agree the Count would reward them for turning in the thief and decide to bring the painting, the darkling, and themselves to the Blood on the Vine.

The thin man returns to the carnival to find Thaelen and Tlareg. They are both leaving the main show in wildly different moods. Thaelen, barely conscious, slumps over Tlareg’s shoulder, slurring “People are walking to shadows. Become darkness.” Tlareg, upset that he was probably ripped off, has been stuffing his bag with as much free food as he can carry, and tells the wizard, “No, it was just dark.”

After dragging the drunk back, the group makes their way back into Dalzos’s lair. He saunters in from a back room, with his v-neck plunging to new, sleazy lows. With a look of shock, he asks why they brought the painting to the place he specifically didn’t want to get raided by the city guard. Hearing his concerns, they ask for directions to Arminius. They are told he stands watch at the northern gate, and that any reward they are offered should be appropriately distributed with consideration for a “consulting fee” of 20%. Thaelen tries to barter him down, but simultaneously agrees to pay the full 20% in Thieves’ Cant.

They seek out Arminius, and Thaelen decides to hang back a little. He begins resting against a lamp post while the rest of the party talks to the silver dragonborn they had met earlier. While disappointed he didn’t get to exact holy vengeance, Arminius is pleased that the painting has been recovered. He has been granted authority to produce a reward they can collect from city hall, but needs to know a name to address it to. After a short pause, their champion, and voice of reason, steps forward: “We’re Krug ‘n’ Krew.” Thaelen falls in the snow and begins yelling to himself. Used to the wizard’s antics, the group also turns the darkling over to Arminius. The group decides to collect their 42 gold, and returns to the tavern.

Dalzos collects his fee from the party, and invites them to stay a while. They chat for a while about the state of affairs in Barovia and about Zehrulius, as promised. Zehrulius Tiberion von Strahdovich is the nephew of Eskellia who is a cousin of Count Strahd. He acts as a trader by day, but spends most of his days in the family estate in Ravensloft. Dalzos confirms several of the party’s suspicions, and believe the Strahd family is linked to many strange occurrences.

There are drastically increased numbers of ravens in the area, which should have long since migrated north. According to legend, they’re said to ferry the souls of the dead to the Raven Queen. Despite the freezing temperatures, a slow, rolling fog emerges most mornings, especially near Ravensloft. Finally, Dalzos has heard rumors of strange marching lights emerging from graves under the full moon. The group scans around the bar, and notices several “lucky” icons hung to the walls: mirrors, rabbit feet, and horseshoes to name a few.

As that chat winds down, the thin man offers Dalzos an icon of his patron. He produces a striped, J-shaped piece of candy and reminds the thief to “be a good boy.”

After a few days of rest and relaxation, the party finds themselves wandering the streets of Trostenwald. As they walk, they see a young gnome running around acting as the town crier. He frantically approaches them and asks where he can find a “Krug ‘n’ Krew.” Krug nods in approval, and they follow the man to the magistrate’s estate.

The magistrate, Otto von Westerwilt is overjoyed that the painting has been returned, and the thief apprehended. For their service, he hosts a small bruncheon consisting of flapjacks, eggs, coffee, and the second cheapest bottle of wine you’d find at a nice hotel bar. The portly, and far too cheery man grants their request, and writes a short introductory note to grant them an audience with Strahd. He gives them a few provisions to make the journey south, including a bottle of wine. Thaelen asks if they can get “one for the road,” and Otto falls into a fit of high-pitched laughter. The party joins in for a hefty chuckle, and then poses for a freeze-framed high-five to wait until the next session.

The first corridor is mostly empty, aside from a few magical sconces along the wall giving off a soft yellow glow.
He presses his back against the wall and listens again.
The footsteps are growing quieter and there is a faint sound of metal dragging across stone.
Sif peeks out and sees a goblin lazily dragging a sword stumbling into another room.
Assuming his foe is at least as drunk as he is, Sif scurries along the wall before leaping into a large dining hall.

Strewn between the long benches and tables are his three foes: two goblin zombies and a large black spider with vibrant green markings along its back.
He clasps the oak leaf carving around his neck, and it lets of a blinding burst of light as he casts *Turn Undead.*
The zombies flee in the presence of Odo's energy, but the spider lurches forward and deals a devastating blow.
The two trade blows, before a quick flourish of his trusty mace ends the creature's life.
With his other foes disoriented, Sif decides to swing away with reckless abandon.

This is when things go poorly.

The first goblin is dispatched in a single stroke.
Sif then throws his entire weight into a backhand strike, misses, and accidentally throws Estelle across the room.
As the mace separates from his hands, the cleric quickly loses consciousness.

Moments later, he awakens.

It is deep in the night and a terrible storm is approaching.
The rain drenches his cloak, and he pulls it tight to keep warm.
Step after step drives him towards the precipice of the black, stone tower.
It is ancient and withered, but still serves its true calling.
Behind him, a small gnomish man carries the still body of his dearly departed.
He has paid handsomely for this day, and, in desperation, turned to a man and forces he did not understand.
